---
title: '#11'
author: g33kyaditya
type: post
date: 2015-08-18T21:17:10+00:00
url: /?p=68
categories:
  - Uncategorized

---
While I write this, I am sitting with two of my friends in my University&#8217;s Reading Hall. It&#8217;s already past 2:30 in the AM, and we are just chilling out , talking of an array of things &#8230; for no apparent reason.

University Elections are taking place. This time a bit earlier though. All parties have pulled up their socks and are campaigning vigorously. They wake you up at 3 in the morning. What for ? &#8220;Vote for us !&#8221; . What a pile of crap !

I&#8217;ve been here for an year now, enough to know about the elections.

Parties primarily aim at the Freshers. For the simple reason that they don&#8217;t know shit about the shit happening around. If you are a fresher, they approach you and will do anything for your precious vote. Wait till the election fever goes down. Nobody gives a damn ! Well of course, there are some genuinely nice people but I am talking about the majority of them, I&#8217;ve seen.

So, me and my friends with nothing better to do are discussing about the most hyped topic right now&#8230; Elections. Let&#8217;s see how the night goes, given I&#8217;ll be spending  it outside my hostel.

So yeah ! Just felt like posting here. And to end this one without something geeky would be committing a sin. So here goes, I wrote a patch to Amarok. Currently I am working on it and get it reviewed. Let&#8217;s hope they commit it. Will let you know about it.

Thanks for Reading !