---
title: '#12'
author: g33kyaditya
type: post
date: 2015-10-12T14:47:40+00:00
url: /?p=73
categories:
  - Uncategorized

---
Welcome my fellow readers !

As you would have seen, I changed the UI of the blog. This looks much more visually appealing. Its been a long time since my last post. It&#8217;s not easy being a blogger. This makes me wonder how do regular bloggers not run out of topics to write ! \*sigh\* So here goes.

Life&#8217;s going well. The first fifteen days of September were a complete mess due to some personal issues but everything is back on track. It seems like I am starting out with a new phase in life. Let&#8217;s see what it has to offer.

As for University, things don&#8217;t quite move smoothly. Had my Minors some time back. And I sucked. Well, I didn&#8217;t study for it either but that&#8217;s no excuse. Will score better next time.

As for FOSS, I have news. I am currently working on porting Amarok to Qt5/KF5. More on it in some later post I guess. And I&#8217;m too lazy now to dive into it&#8217;s technicalities. But yeah, everything seems to be going pretty fine. I also got a KDE Developer Account 🙂 . But as the Ksysadmins say, with great power comes great responsibility. Hahaha

In the midst of it all, I learned shell scripting. And believe me, it&#8217;s awesome. Daily tasks like sorting files or renaming a batch of files based on some parameters is a cakewalk , that would perhaps be a nightmare using GUI. I&#8217;ll continue to use it and read about it as much as I can. Also, earlier I used to compile my C++ programs using &#8211;

> g++ <name of file.cpp> -o <name of file>

What this does, is that passes the name of the file you want to compile as an argument to g++. We are using the -o flag and then the <name of file> , so after compilation , the file is saved as <name of file> , without the .cpp extension.

I created a 2 line script for it called &#8221; x &#8221;  , so that all I have to do now is &#8211;

> x <name of file.cpp>

This does the same thing as earlier and saves the compiled binary. Here&#8217;s the script in case you want it  : [x][1]

Also, I finally found a stable build &#8211; Fedora 22 with KDE Plasma 5 . There is still an issue with the login manager (SDDM) , but nothing I cannot find a workaround with CLI . So, that&#8217;s not so much as a problem now.

That&#8217;s all for now.

Thanks for Reading

 [1]: https://github.com/g33kyaditya/Scripts/blob/master/x