---
title: '#26: GSoC with KDE Now – 4'
author: g33kyaditya
type: post
date: 2016-06-11T14:34:32+00:00
url: /?p=465
categories:
  - Uncategorized
tags:
  - gsoc16
  - kde

---
Hey ! I&#8217;m making KDE Now, an application for the Plasma Desktop. It would help the user see important stuff from his email, on a plasmoid. It&#8217;s similar to what Google Now does on Android. To know more, click [here][1]

&nbsp;

In the past week, I worked on the code reviews I got. Hence, I changed the classes&#8217; design all over. The way it works now, is that there is a central dispatcher, the [daemon][2], that handles all the jobs. I chose this design, since it was how originally KIMAP jobs, was supposed to be managed. My mentor and Daniel Vratil helped me in deciding this.

I previously said, that I&#8217;d change the update to a new thread. That might not have been entirely true 😉 . From what I know, IDLE is an async process, so there might be some actual lag there. I&#8217;ll add this in my TODO during the time I test everything and just move to other things on my list.

The IMAP client was looking good, so I started to implement a parser. Now I must say, this took more time than I expected. I was adamant at using Qt JSON library which is pretty good for parsing JSON. But to parse that JSON, the first thing is that I **need** JSON data. I looked through the [docs][3]. Nothing seemed good enough. QtWebKit seemed overkill. Of course, me and my mentor were against using it. There&#8217;s no GUI in our application, and using it would have been a waste of precious resources. I checked some other 3&#8217;rd party C++ libraries like SGML for Qt, Gumbo Parser by Google but nothing seemed appropriate. SGML was a bit (well more) on the slower side. Gumbo seemed good at first, but since it was 3rd party, I was worried. Maybe some things about license too. I didn&#8217;t feel like adding a dependency. Finally I settled for regex (No Wait. Whattt ? I know ? Before you all charge at me, I **didn&#8217;t** use it). Yeah, so I settled for regex. I contacted my mentor and Dan, and they were against it (Well me too, but what choice did I have ?). To those of you, who still think, it would have been okay to use regexes, read [this][4]. Dan told me to use QXmlStreamReader. My initial reaction was whattt ? How can I parse HTML with an XML parser ? Hence I never even googled about it. On a second thought though, HTML if formatted nicely, is just plain XML. (Now do you get it ? Just the tags !). I tested it with my IMAP client. Everything seemed good. It&#8217;s [fast][5] and reliable. It&#8217;s also in the QtCore module. So, Speed; check. Reliability; check. No added dependencies;check. What else could I have asked for (A tank ?). So, now I had data between those script tags in HTML, after I parsed it through QXmlStreamReader. Next I parsed this data using Qt JSON Library ([QJsonDocument][6], [QJsonArray][7], [QJsonObject][8]). I store the required data in Maps. With the power and consistency of QVariant(Map) things became quite easy.

I got code reviews from my mentor. We discussed some stuff for the next stages.In the next part, I&#8217;ll perfect the extractors I have written. Implement them as plugins and load these plugins in the client. This will make writing extractors for other schemas and hence adding support very easy. I&#8217;ll also be working with a database (SQLite) to cache the fetched emails. One of the things, I noticed just now, is that I&#8217;m using the [Incremental][9] methodology of Software Engineering. I am adding new features one by one. Building and testing at each step. Never thought, I&#8217;d see the impact of the course classes this early 😉

See you later.

 [1]: https://g33kyaditya.wordpress.com/2016/04/23/21-google-summer-of-code-2016/
 [2]: https://github.com/g33kyaditya/KDE-Now/blob/master/src/daemon.h
 [3]: https://wiki.qt.io/Handling_HTML
 [4]: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1732348/regex-match-open-tags-except-xhtml-self-contained-tags
 [5]: http://doc.qt.io/qt-5/qxmlstreamreader.html
 [6]: http://doc.qt.io/qt-5/qjsondocument.html
 [7]: http://doc.qt.io/qt-5/qjsonarray.html
 [8]: http://doc.qt.io/qt-5/qjsonobject.html
 [9]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Incremental_build_model