---
title: '#23: GSoC with KDE Now- 2'
author: g33kyaditya
type: post
date: 2016-05-11T14:38:49+00:00
url: /?p=327
categories:
  - Uncategorized
tags:
  - gsoc16
  - kde

---
Hey ! I&#8217;m making KDE Now, an application for the Plasma Desktop. It would help the user see important stuff from his email, on a plasmoid. It&#8217;s similar to what Google Now does on Android. To know more, click [here][1]

&nbsp;

Just an update on what I&#8217;ve planned for the coming weeks. Also, I don&#8217;t think I&#8217;ll be able to do anything else for the next two weeks, since my final semester exams start from 18th of this month, and last till 28th. So, this blog post seems to be the last one for this month.

About two weeks remain, until formal coding period begins. And my fingers are itching for it.

I got in touch with VDG, and Andy will be giving me mockups. I&#8217;m really really thankful to him for it. I don&#8217;t know how much my mockups would have sucked, had I made them. Hahaha

My proposal had some changes in between. Originally, I had proposed to use Akonadi for fetching the emails. After submitting the proposal, my mentor got in touch with me and said it would be better to use KImap library. What this means for me, is that I&#8217;m gonna have to implement an Imap client (not so trivial), but where&#8217;s the fun, if it were easy ;). KImap makes this task easier. Unfortunately, I won&#8217;t have any time, to write some test applications for getting familiar with it&#8217;s API. I think, I&#8217;ll just have to dive in.

Vishesh had written an early prototype for KDE Now. So, to start with, I&#8217;ll be working on his code. He had used KImap to fetch emails. However, it did not update the email cache. That&#8217;s what I&#8217;ll be doing first. I&#8217;ll store UID of the last fetched email in a file. And when I get the notification that a new email has arrived, I&#8217;ll fetch new emails based on the UID&#8217;s larger than the one I stored in the file. This should work, since in IMAP, UID&#8217;s are incremental in nature.

I also went through D-Bus concepts. I&#8217;ll be using it to tell the plasmoid, that &#8220;Hey, I have new mails. Check !&#8221;.

<< Off Topic >>

I download free cover music from Youtube, using youtube-dl. I was bored while I was studying for my semesters yesterday. So I wrote this script yesterday to download songs from youtube. It&#8217;s really a no brainer,  not a big deal, but have a look and let me know if there are some bugs. It can be found [here][2].

See you later

Thanks for reading !

 [1]: https://g33kyaditya.wordpress.com/2016/04/23/21-google-summer-of-code-2016/
 [2]: https://github.com/g33kyaditya/Scripts/blob/master/mp3d.py